
				PROTECTOR INSTRUCTIONS

Protector is a DOS game - it should run on DOS, or Windows 95, 98 or ME.  NT/2000 users will need a boot disk.


How to install Protector:  

Create a directory somewhere and unzip the zip file
into it.  Run prot.exe to start.  

The zip file should contain:

prot.exe - the game file
prot.cfg - configuration file
cwsdpmi.exe - protected memory server
prot.txt - this file
gpl.txt - the license
changes.txt - the change log 


The game:

It's a defender clone.  Pick up the lifepods (red smiley things at
the bottom of the screen) and take them through the portal (blue
wobbly thing).  Various baddies will try to stop you.  Shoot them.

Controls:  Use the arrow keys and space bar for the main menu.  Default 
game controls are:

    Player 1:                          Player 2:

Caps Lock  - Fire                 Enter       - Fire
A          - Up                   Up arrow    - Up
Z          - Down                 Down arrow  - Down
X          - Left                 Left arrow  - Left
C          - Right                Right arrow - Right
B          - Smart bomb           ]           - Smart Bomb
S          - Shield on/off        [           - Shield on/off
Escape     - Suicide              Escape      - Suicide

but you can redefine them.

When the game says "Press the key you want to use to <do something>", you can
also press a joystick button or move the stick in some direction.
Calibrate the joystick first!   

Sound:

Sound configuration is always a pain.  Unless you are very lucky, 
Protector will need some help in detecting your sound configuration.
Open the prot.cfg file with a text editor and fill in some details.
The important ones are sound card type, port adress, IRQ and DMA.

DJGPP

Protector was compiled with DJGPP- a DOS port of the GNU C/C++ compiler, by DJ Delorie and a lot of other people.  DJGPP is freely available- it can be downloaded from various websites:

http://www.delorie.com/djgpp/
or:
http://www.simtel.net/simtel.net/
(choose a mirror site from here)

Protector uses the allegro game library for DJGPP.  This is a very useful collection of graphics and sound routines and other stuff, by Shawn Hargreaves and some other people.  Allegro can probably be downloaded from any site which offers DJGPP.

Cwsdmpi is by Charles Sandmann.



License:

Protector is free software, released under the GPL version 2, or any later version (if you prefer a later version).  Additionally, if you give copies of the DOS version to other people, you need to tell them where they can get DJGPP from.

The licenses are complicated but the important points are these:

You are allowed to play the game.
You are allowed to give copies of it to other people.  (The simplest way is to include all the files listed above)
If you want the source code you should be able to get it.

If my website is working, you should be able to get the source code from here:
http://www.void.fslife.co.uk/games/prot/prot.html


Disclaimer:

If anything goes wrong, it's not my fault.


Credits:

Programming etc.            - Mark Boyd
Playtesting                 - Robert Stewart
Some concepts 'inspired' by - Microsith at www.microsith.com (alas, this site is slowly disintegrating)
